%---おはよう/ありがとう
Ohayoo is used between friends and family members, while ohayooo gozaimasu is used between less intimate acquaintances, similarly with arigatoo and arigatoo gozaimasu. The rule of thumb is: if you are on a first-name basis with someone, go for the shoerter versions. If you would address someone as Mr. or Ms., use the longer versions. To give a concrete example, the social expectation is such that students are to use the longer variants when they speak with a professor.

%---さようなら
There are several good-bye expressions in Japanese, the choice among which depends on the degree of separation. Sayoonara indicates that the speaker does not expect to see the person spoken to before she "turns a page in her life"; not until a new day arrives, or until fate brings the two together again, or until they meet again in the other world.
    じゃあ、また。    Jaa, mata.
(between friends, expecting to see each other again fairly soon)
    しつれいします。	 Shitsureeshimasu.
(taking leave from a professor's office, for example)
    いってきます。    Ittekimasu.
(leaving home)

%---すみません
Sumimasen means (1) "Excuse me," to get another person's attention, (2) "I'm sorry," to apologize for the trouble you have caused, or (3) "Thank you," to show appreciation for what someone has done for you.

%---いいえ
Iie is primarily "No," a negative reply to a question. In the dialogue, it is used to express the English phrase "Don't mention it," or "You're welcome," with which you point out that one is not required to feel obliged for what you have done for them.

%---いってらっしゃい/いってきます/ただいま/おかえりなさい
Ittekimasu and itterasshai is a common exchange used at home when a family member leaves. The person who leaves says ittekimasu, which literally means "I will go and come back." And the family members respond with itterasshai, which means "Please go and come back."

Tadaima and okaeri are used when a person comes home. The person who arrives home says tadaima (I am home right now) to the family members, and they respond with okaerinasai (Welcome home).